Daniel is blind and started to
echolocate 42 years ago his technique is
the human equivalent of dolphin sonar he
too can see with sound he's come to
Bruges to meet dr. Magnus Val Berg a
very curious sonar expert who has never
before met a human echolocator it's very
interesting to meet you Dan because I've
been studying echolocation for many
years in animals I've never been able to
ask the animals how they really feel
about the represented to echolocate and
what it is that they actually can
perceive yes so it's very interesting to
be able to talk to you about it on for
example now here we come up to this tree
here how far away could you
detect this this trunk here Thank You
this tree yeah yeah yeah that's that's
easy
yeah the trunk of the tree would be like
this despite his blindness Daniel can
give Magnus a surprising amount of
detail about the tree without even
touching it these trees are very high
yeah what I can tell you though is the
trunk is actually fairly uniform as far
up as I can go it's almost like a pole
what do you sit in the echoes that makes
you ah see that well when a sound wave
goes out it more or less takes the shape
of whatever it strikes if we could see
the sound wave lots of us the sound wave
will pass the tree right and that that
come that which comes back from a tree
more or less comes back in its shape
Magnus is astonished that a human has
the ability to see through sound and in
such amazing detail tested to see that
Dan could actually solve very complex
tasks like he could find out how big
this tree was and that it was having a
very even trunk and I didn't really
believe that he would be able to do that
so that was fantastic to see that in
action dan is blind he has no
possibility to use his vision and it's
going to be interesting to see if we can
if we can blindfold Milo now and see how
good he will perform without his
eyesight because he of course has an
advantage that he can both see and and
echolocate
you